Sauced Handler Interface Specification
--------------------------------------
$Id: HandlerInterface.spec.txt 3 2003-07-17 15:19:15Z will $

1.0 Abstract

  This spec documents an interface for communication between the
  CCEd and an event handler.  
  
  In this world, handlers are invoked as a direct response to a
  CREATE or SET command, and so the handler only needs to worry
  about one object's worth of data changing at a go.

2.0 The Fork-And-Exec Interface

  A handler of the form:
  		exec:/path/to/my/program
  is started when the handler is triggered using a fork and exec.
  
  The handler's environment is set up such that:
    STDIN (fd 0) is used to read data from the CCEd server
    STDOUT (fd 1) is used to write data back to the CCEd server
    STDERR (fd 2) is redirected to /dev/null.
  
  Communication between CCEd and the handler is then conducted as
  described in section 4.0.

3.0 The Unix Domain Socket Interface

  A handler of this form:
  		uds:/path/to/my/pipe
  is connected to via a unix domain socket.  Sauced attempts to
  open the socket file for read and write, and uses that file descriptor
  to communicate with the handler in the manner described in section 4.0.

4.0 Sauced - Handler communcation.

	As soon as CCEd has connected to the handler (either by starting the
  handler and communication via stdin/stdout, or by some other means),
  CCEd starts speaking the CSCP protocol to the handler.  This
  begins with CCEd sending the CSCP header to the handler.

	After the handler has been transmitted, CCEd waits for CSCP
  commands from the handler and responds to them interactively.
  
  The handler should terminate by issuing a "BYE" command with some
  exit code ("SUCCESS", "FAIL", or "DEFER").
  
  If the exit code isn't specified by the handler, or if the handler
  closes the connection without issuing a BYE command, the handler
  is assumed to have failed with the message "handler-error."  ie. as
  if the handler had issued the command:

	  	BYE FAIL
      
  See the CSCP specification document (see CSCP.spec.txt) for details
  of the CSCP-Lite protocol.
